<h3>Decision tree based automated prediction of infant low birth weight</h3>

<h4><p>
1.Low birth weight (LBW) is the single most important factor determining the survival chances of an infant and predicting this LBW based on the maternal factors 
through the data engineering can be another contribution to the medical diagnosis. 
2.The birth weight of an infant is the first weight recorded after birth, ideally measured within the first hours after birth, before significant postnatal weight
loss has occurred. Low birth weight (LBW) is defined as a birth weight of less than 2500 g (up to and including 2499 g), as per the World Health Organization (WHO).
3.Early detection or prediction of output of LBW babies in the pregnancies can help to prevent theLBW or can increase the survival chance of the LBW babies by 
providing extra antenatal care for mother.
4.Classification and regression are the process in machine learning where classifiers are used without much human intervention.
In this paper they used Decision Tree:
Decision tree is a prediction structure in which nodes represent the attributes of the dataset and leaves represents the class distribution. Decision tree learning 
algorithms use divide and conquer strategy in top-down recursive manner in which root node represents the whole training data which splits into subsets depending on
the selected attribute values based on the splitting condition.
Two phases in Decision tree:
Growing phase
Pruning phase 
Pruning is the 
fundamental process in decision trees, which handles over fitting of data by reducing the size of the tree to avoid complexity. The noise and outliers are
removed in pruning and the tree is generalized to improve the accuracy of the classification.
C4.5, Random Tree, Random Forest, Decision Stump, Logistic Model Tree, REP Tree (reduced error pruning tree) and BF Tree. They can mostly handle nominal and
numeric attributes of the dataset and some of them can handle only numeric attributes. C4.5 partitions the attributes value using a threshold, which 
handle missing values, and uses Gain ratio as an attribute selection measure to build a decision tree.
Attributes like age, parity, hemoglobin, initial and last weight, disease control, BMI. There were 2702 observations in the data set. The outcome variable
in this study had 3 categories such as Normal birth weight (NB) Low birth weight (LB) and High birth weight(HB) used in dataset.
